						DOCKER
Virtualization:
Enable you to run the multiple operating system on the hardware of a single physical server.
			 
containerization:
enable you to run deploy the multiple application using same operating system on single virtual machine.
DOCKER 
Docker is open source platform tool designed to manage the container.
which allow to use to build to application in a containerwith required libraries.
binaries, dependencies to run the application, ship the container run anywhere.
		  
WHY WE USE DOCKER
portbility
light waight 
fast delivery and scalability.
resource optimization
docker ability to run multiple isolated OS in single host.
docker is used for continuous deployment and testing.
			
		
Exploring the availabilty docker components:
docker client
docker host (docker engine)
docker rigistry
we have other components as well as 
docker image
docker containers
docker network
docker storage
		     
			 
			 
1. docker client :It is used to manage the docker components such as container image network
storage volume by giving the specific instrictions toperform some operations  like build, run,
create, pull, delete, stop and restart
			 
docker client interact with the docker host where docker daeman is install.
			   
			   
2. Docker host:
Docker host is the server where the docker daemanis running and it is managed the docker containerand other resource.
It is listen and accepts the requests form docker cliet.
				 
3. Docker rigistry (Docker Hub)
docker rigistryis nothing but to managethe docker images.
docker hub is available in internet maintaining by docker compony in cloud.
we can pull the docker image from docker hub  
 we have two service in docker hub 
			1. public 
			2. private 
					
Installation of docker in linux machine 
			
			
			
docker file:
Docker file is used to build our own docker images by giving some instrictions to cstomise an existing 
docker image baswd on our requirement in an automated way without running a docker container.
			   
docker file name should be Dockerfile.
			   
			   
 why you requiredis dockerfile
 we have lot of pre-existing docker images available in docker hub rigistry. it can pull directly fro docker hub
 and we can use our own need.
but still we use need to customize the existing docker images based on our requirement.
so dockerfile helps to us build our own docker imagesautomatically as per the instractiom given.
				   				   
EXPLORING THE INSTRACTION IN DOCKERFILE:

       FROM         MAINTAINER
       LABEL        ADD
       COPY         CMD
       ENTRYPOINT   ENV	
       ARG          EXPOSE 
       RUN          USER
       VOLUME       WORKDIR

    Dockerfile syntex

      dockerfile syntex consist of two kind of main line blocks

      ==  #comments
      ==  INSTRACTION arguments

     ex    #print "Hello docker"
           RUN echo "Hello docker"


   dockerfile FROM instrictions :		   

   what is the mandatory instrictions in docker file?
   what is the major difference in add and copy instrictions?
   what is the major differencein cmd and entrypoint?
   what is the major difference between ENV and arguments?
   
   
   docker file demo 
      
	  
vim Dockerfile
	         entry the below sentence and save and exit 
FROM tomcat:7
	  
	 run this  command 
 docker build .  ====  
	  
	  
      FROM tomcat:7
      MAINTAINER dhanraj nagaraj
      LABEL "support-Tean"="DevOps"
      ADD dhanraj /usr/local/tomcat
      COPY dhanraj /tmp
      CMD sleep 100
      ENTRYPOINT sleep 5000
      ENV app_yersion 3.10
      ARG APP_NAME DHANU-APP
      EXPOSE 8080
      RUN apt update
      USER dhanrajnagaraj
      VOLUME /root:/usr/local/tomcat
      WORKDIR /usr/local/tomcat
      COPY dhanraj .

	       
what is docker image ?
  docker image is file compresed of multiple layer, that is used execute code in a docker container.
  
  docker image commands 
  
   docker images 
   docker image ls 
     if u want pull the docker image
   docker pull
     if u want check the history of the docker image
    docker history (image-id)
	if u want check the information of the docker image
	 docker inspect {image -id}
	 
	 
 what is docker storage ?
   The storage driven control how images and container are stored and managed on your docker host.
   docker support severals storage drivers using a pluggeble architecture.
      
	  Different types of storage drivers
	  
	   1. overlay
	   2. overlay2
	   3. aufs
	     
		 
wherw it is stored docker images

  var/lib/docker  
  
  
what is docker  container?

  Docker containeris a executable form of docker image
  you can have multiple docker container from a single docker image.
  
  docker run 
    docker ps
	docker ps -a
	docker ps -q
	docker ps -qa 
